Nobody could enter this door. The guard wouldn't
let them. Without calling. Without me calling him
on the phone to get permission to come in. But this
time he called. I was his office right next door to
him. But there was no door from my office directly
in. I had to come out in the hallway to get to his
door.
He called me. I came in, and as I entered the door, he
was staying in the middle of the room. He drew
himself up straight and so straight that he
actually bent over backwards in a very arrogant,
accusative manner. General Bond, why are you
disciplining my orders? I said, what do you mean,
disciplining your orders, General?
I told you I didn't want you coming up in the front of
this building, and you've been doing it for the
last week. And I guess that's the closest I came to
going on. And I just took a step forward towards
him, and I took my hand and said, I will never park in
front of your building again, General, and turn
around and walk down. That's the closest I ever
came to insulting a general, whether it's
American, foreigner, or anybody. I never talked
to a superior like that. Turned around and walked
out. Matter of fact, I went to my office, put my cap
on, and went home. I was just furious. Of course,
settled down. And never heard any more about
David. And where'd you park? Oh, I parked in the
back. I didn't want to cause any more trouble. And I
determined that I just wouldn't I would not see
General Bianchi any more than I had to then on. Did
you report this to your general? No, no, not
officially, no. I later on told him the story. I'll
tell you more about this later on. I had a talk with
him once. But it's things of this nature. The way he
talked to my men is insulting.
ironic, satirical remarks. Is there an American
officer here that can do this? Gentlemen, would
you stand up and speak in American English to your
officers so they understand my instructions?
This type of thing. Really? Oh. Well, that's
enough of that. We're taking too much time. But I
can assure you that it was one of the hardest jobs I
have ever had in my life. Three years? Three years.
I took on
a little
project at home, building a model house. I
concentrated on physical therapy, you know,
walked at night, getting in shape, exercising,
anything to get my mind off of my job. He would call
me in at times and we'd have staff meetings and I was
polite, he was polite. These things didn't show up
except at the Freeport Times. His underling
officers, the lower-ranking Italian officers,
had a great deal of respect for him. They all knew
the type of General Bianchi was, and they were
absolutely scared to death of him. I have never
seen officers so scared of a commander as that. I
have never seen those. Just in utter fear when he
spoke to them. The man had some reasons for being
this way, I'm sure. First, he had severe glaucoma
and was blind in one eye. I'm sure this is one reason
that he didn't go any further in his military
career. Now, this is all in defense of General
Bianchi. His wife, I loved her and felt so sorry for
her. She was German and just as sweet as she could
be. You'd never know that she lived with a man of
this temperament. I've seen him actually, you
know, act around her as though he insulted her. He
didn't act like a gentleman around her. You know,
she'd call him around like a little puppy, this
type of thing. I'm spending too much time on this.
Anyway. Tell me about the time that you finally
told your commanding officer.
This was about after two years. Incidentally,
when General, very few times would the F. South
Commander, a four-star United States Navy
Admiral, very few times would he ever come up and
visit us at 5-8 Taff. Only one or two times did
General Swafford ever come up and visit 5-8 Taff,
and we just didn't have many visitors at all, and it
was all because of the personality of this man. He
was well known to be this type of person.
Effectiveness reports. Final effectiveness
report when I was reassigned from, oh, about a
year, you know, each year I had to have one. It was a
year before I was reassigned, and I'm sure it had a
lot to do with my being promoted to a major general
in, still in that position when I retired. It's the
only time an American general, Air Force, or NATO
that I know of, and I was told, was promoted from
brigadier general to a major general. It was the
only time that a Brigadier General assigned to
NATO was given a second star in that position. He
had called for a Brigadier General. Do you feel
that was because of the fact that you could relate?
I'm going to tell you what this was.
I saw my effectiveness report. General Swofford
sent me a copy of it when he sent it in at the end of the
second year. And it had to be endorsed by the Navy
AFSAL commander because he was the chain of
command. They took it. And it so happened this was
the United States four-star athlete. And his
remarks just on the endorsement was, I agree
absolutely with everything General Swofford
says about General Bond. And of course, it was
outstanding. It topped right down the right-hand
side. And his last sentence, we are indeed
fortunate that we have a man like General Bond in
this position in 5th ATF. He knew what the
situation was. The chief of staff of 5th ATF under
General Swofford was an Italian major general,
whom I learned to love. And he would ask me
questions. He says, Bond, they never call you by
your first name in Italy. It's always, Bond, how is
life up at 5-8-10? And I said, well, they did much
better. And he'd laugh and put his arm on me and
said, I understand. But he said, you know, these
things will change. He knew what I was getting at.
It was well known. And I was given full credit by
General Swartford and General and Admiral,
Admiral Russell, for keeping my mouth and my
temper, I'm sure. I am convinced no other journal
was put up by him. I'm convinced of it. And that's
the reason this other journal that I relieved, he
had to leave. He wouldn't even talk to this man. He
wouldn't even talk to him. And it just couldn't go.
I mean, you had to get rid of him. What happened to
that man? He wasn't reduced in rank or anything.
They just sent him back home, gave him another job.
He knew what the situation was. But at any rate, I
was, we had a NATO. Well, tell me about when you
talked to the general. I am. I'm going to tell you
right now. We had a NATO conference of shape up at
Wiesbaden, Germany. Oh, yeah. Yeah, Wiesbaden,
Germany. No, at Ramstein with ATF. Okay. And had a
meeting there. And, of course, this was all the key
generals. General Bianchi did not go. He wouldn't
go. He was supposed to go to this conference. He
wouldn't go. He sent me. It was beneath his dignity
to go to this meeting. That's the way he looked at
it. He wouldn't go. And I
went. And that night, you know, General Crawford
had heard things, I'm sure. And that night, as we
come back to her after one of the dinner's social
John said, come on in and have a drink. I went in.
John said, how you getting along up there? I said,
well, John said, sometimes it gets pretty rough.
He says, I think I know what you mean. He said, tell
me about it. And I said, well, John, I'll tell you. I
said, this man, John, will be honest. He is,
without a doubt, close to being me. I just laid my
hair down and told him, without a doubt, this man is
a typical bossess. And I said, there's no doubt he
hates America. He said, well, I've heard a lot of
stories about this. He says, tell me. He asked me
questions like, what does he do? How does he act?
And I told him. And I called to his attention. I
said, you remember when you visited
ATAP about a month ago? You remember you came up and
he first picked you up in the car. And then we rode
over to the club. I mean, where the headquarters
were. They're going to put you up. And... You
reached in to get your bag out of the back of the car,
you know, and he reached in and said, oh, no, we'll
have your bag taken care of, General Swofford, you
don't need to do that. And I said, I distinctly
remember that you looked at him and reached in and
said, I'll take care of my own bag. That's what
General Swofford did. He laughed. You know what I
mean? I said, now this stone is what I have to put up
with. I said, I let him know that, you know, I
realized he knew what I was doing. And General
Swofford, he listened to me for a while. And I told
him about some of the colonels under me that were
being reassigned. You know, the tour was over and
all. They had stories with me, and they literally
despised the man. And it was a hard job really to put
up with this gentleman. And all I'm saying, I don't
see how you do it. I don't see how you do it. But that
decided the point. But General Swofford asked
this guy, and he said, well, try this. I'll tell you
what. He said, I can reassign you if you want me to.
And he knew that I was having this hard time. And I
don't know, I may have shown him the face that I was,
you know, it's too much of a struggling emotion. He
said, I can have you reassigned if you want to. And
he, nothing but from the standpoint of demoting
me, but, you know, just, you know, relieving me of
this horrible experience. And you've already had
it for two years? Yeah. And I said, no. I said, I can
handle it. I said, I don't want to be reassigned. I
said, I can handle this job. I'll take it. I said, I
don't want you reassigned. He said, okay. And I
stayed with him. Until your three-year tour was
over? Well, fortunately, he didn't stay there.
After a little over two years, he was replaced by a
completely opposite type of a general.
Lieutenant, I mean, he's a major gentleman. He's
got his third story. He was a diplomat in
completely the other extremes. And I only had
another year to go, a little less than another year
to go, so I was going to have a fine job, and I knew I
had to be rotated. But a terrific man, and he fully
understood what the situation was. And it was a, it
was a, the change of command ceremony was really a,
it was something to behold, and there was a lot of
mixed emotions, submerged emotions of elation
that this guy was leaving. No, Bianchi? Bianchi
was leaving, yeah. Oh, okay, so after two years
then Bianchi was reassigned. Right, and there was
quite a lot of speculation on his part. He was
hoping he'd be made Chief of Staff of the Italian
Air Force, but he wasn't. He was put in a major
supply position in Rome, Italy, outside of the
NATO organization, but strictly in the Italian
Air Force. a shelf assignment for him in his last
tour, I suppose. But it was definitely, I'm sure
that it broke the old boy's heart, but didn't break
his spirit any. Right through the change of
command ceremony, he was still the same type. You
were happy to see him? Oh, was I ever happy to see
him. So you had one more year with a man who was a-
Very fine person. Oh, okay. Very fine. Okay, now
there's a number of questions that I want to ask you
about this 1960-1963 NATO assignment.
One is, when were nuclear weapons put in, given to
NATO? Do you remember? Oh, they were there when I
got there in 1960. Do you remember when they were
put in? Did I get there in 59?
You arrived there in October 1960. Yeah, 1960. Oh
yeah, you had nuclear capabilities in Italy. Your
airplanes did. No, not to tell you an Air Force
airplane, but we had under our operational
control a rotating flight of United States Air
Force Tactical Air Command F-100s at Aviano Air
Force Base in northern Italy. that were good
nuclear alerts to us, a little nuclear alert all
the time. Now, let's say we had operational
command of it. We didn't give orders for the
takeoff of those type of airplanes or conduct
their training. That was done under the commander
of the United States Air Forces of Europe. It was
strictly a United States Air Force set up that we
spun headquarters. So it wasn't NATO? No, well,
the training and responsibility was not NATO, but
the operational command, and let's say the
ordering them on a mission, was the NATO job, which
was still the United States Air Force commander at
that time, General, was it Norstad? So NATO, so in
other words, well, the Supreme Commander of NATO
is an American. That's right. That's right, and he
has control of the atomic nuclear arsenal. Now,
let's talk about the quality of the force, the
quality of the Italians that you were working
with, the quality of the Air Force in your area.
Well,
in the first place, The Italian Air Force was
manned with old F-84 aircraft. In fact, obsolete
aircraft. Sure, yeah. The 84 Sabre jets? No, no,
that's the F-86. Oh, yeah. It's an old
Thunderbird, I think you call it. It's a thud, if
you ever will. Okay. That's an expression we use.
Don't get me mixed up with the F-105 thud, but this
airplane was a thud. Okay. Just, you know,
outdated. Okay. Actually...
The range and performance capability of the
aircraft, the 84s that the Italian Air Force had,
quite frankly, I wonder if they even could get to
their targets across the mountains over into,
let's say, Romania and that area, and maybe into
Yugoslavia, or should we be involved in something
like that. But they had also one squadron of
Italian-built tactical aircraft, what do they
call it? It was an Italian-built airplane, and it
was jet. Now these don't jet aircraft, but it had
the performance of a P-40. They were equipped very
poorly, definitely inferior equipment, and I was
hoping during the time I was over there that maybe
we could get better equipment, maybe F-100s, you
know. We did, and they had a troop carrier group of
C-119, a horrible airplane. But crew-wise,
generally speaking, the crews with the equipment
they had, I think they did a good job. They
certainly tried. And morale-wise, their morale
was good. They had more of a happy-go-lucky
attitude towards life, you know, typical
Italians, and we Americans, they seemed, I don't
know, they just didn't strike me as being
dedicated to the task as much as a typical American
would call it. If there was an attack from the
Eastern Bloc countries
in Italy, where was your major objective, your
targeting objective?
The only ones they had in the Air Forces was these
Aviano-based F-100s under the command of the
United States Air Force commander, who were then
reported to NATO shape commanders. And they had
their specific targets. Actually, we didn't even
get into that planning. Well, what about a
mission? the Eastern Bloc started to move west.
Well, you're close to the border of Yugoslavia.
What was your mission? We were prepared, quite
frankly, it's a good question. All you have to do is
look at the map. Sure. And down in Italy, really the
forces that Air South looked for and did the most
critical thing was the 6th ATF, Turkey and Greece.
Mm-hmm. You look at the map, and you've asked me
questions that I used to ask myself. Are we in an air
defense role? And quite frankly, we were. As a
matter of fact, it so turned out that they learned
about my air defense background, General Bianchi
asked me, but in fact directed me, to prepare an air
defense plan for all of Italy. I sat down and did
that while I was over there. I prepared the air
defense plan. Here are those clunkers. F84 they'd
use for air defense. But should the invasion come
on over, we could get above the Alps, and maybe into
Austria area, and we could get over into
Yugoslavia, and maybe even get a mission over into
Hungary or Romania. But if we got into Romania,
they'd never made it back. So it's a good question
to ask. So really, it's an air defense posture,
quite frankly. And it so turned out that... Defend
Eastern Italy. That's right. Well, defend Italy.
Now, the Army, and support the Italian Army, but
again, you ask the question, against what? Now,
the Italian Army would be on the ground with tanks
and all, well, they're going to have to wait until
the Russians get over there where they can get
striking distance of them, if you will. Sure.
So...
But now they did have the Army, the Italian Army had
a regiment of Honest John's, a new character. Of
course, it was controlled by the American Honest
John outfit.
And they had a range, but quite frankly, those at
that time were almost out of the league. I think the
range was 75 miles. What were they going to get from
the emplacements in Italy? So it's another
question. So the main brunt of the NATO force was
probably, still is today, Germany. Oh, Central.
Absent. Central for sure. Historic, it's only
sure. Now, they've made probably some naval
operations, but that's the reason that there was
another command in the Mediterranean, the Malta,
which was strictly a naval, a British naval
command, plus the naval forces, the United States
Navy primarily, with Italian, Greek, and Turkish
navies integrated under Navy South, NAV South.
And of course their mission would be toward
Istanbul. Oh yeah, fictive naval warfare. And you
don't have a carrier there too. But if you look back
now, strictly the Italian
The Italian Armed Forces and NATO then, as far as I
see from an employment standpoint, is picking one
of their defense and politically being part of
NATO. How about cooperation on maneuvers? It must
have gone out with maneuvers with other NATO
countries. How good were the maneuvers? Did the
people cooperate? The only joint maneuvers we had
was air defense maneuvers, communication across
the Alps with the 4th ATF to pass early warning to
one another. And actually, we even tried to work up
joint air defense procedures across the border
into France with the French air defense command.
And I actually made trips over there and
coordinating such operations. And we worked out
the procedures, but you didn't have much for joint
maneuvers. Now, we had joint maneuvers with the
Italian Army all the time, you know, supporting
them and tanks advancing across the Italian
countryside where they could along the
mountainous roads. Italian Air Force 84 is flying
over and supporting them and giving them
protection and all that type of stuff. Yeah, we had
that. And, you know, did the best. We had a hole in
the mountain for 5th ATF Command Air Control
Center, but again, see, it was air defense. Sure.
Compared to many of your other assignments, this
sounds pretty dull. It was. You're right. Not only
dull, but for the first two years, miserable. Now,
you were here about the same time France was
pulling out of NATO. No, I came home just about that
time, I believe. I think that happened right after
I came home. Yeah.
I don't even think de Gaulle was president at that
time, was he? I'm not sure. I'm sorry. I thought it
was 63.
No, as a matter of fact, I remember visiting NATO
headquarters in Paris, outside of Paris.
I think it was shortly after I left. Okay, well.
How'd you get along with the French? What little I
communicated with them and did air defense
planning with them, I got along with them all
right. They weren't hard to deal with. They
weren't too interested in dealing with Italians.
They were more interested in talking to me than
they were Italians. Greeks I loved. What little
relations I had with them mainly died when I'd go
down to Naples and visit Air South. The Turks I
loved. The Italian people, I literally love. The
lower-ranking Italians, and generally
speaking, most of the Italian Air Force officers,
I love. They're great. I just didn't like my boss.
In 1963, you were awarded your second star. What
was your feeling on that? When I learned that, I was
visiting...
Air Force headquarters in the Pentagon, and I was
with General Swofford, and the promotion list, I
was sitting in the visiting general's office. I
knew the list was about to be published, and
General Swofford had never said a word to me, but he
was sitting in the outer office, reserved for
visiting generals, going over some papers, and I
was sitting inside by the secretary, you know,
waiting for him, and Uh, in walked a Colonel from
Chief Staff's Office right down the hall, and he
had the new, brand new Promotion List, Major
General Brigadier General gave it to the
Secretary. And, uh, she, she didn't, she knew who I
was, but she didn't know anything about whether
I'd be on this or not, and she said, maybe you'd be
interested in this. I said, do come on in. I said,
you bet I'm interested in it. Can I see one of those?
And I grabbed it and made it go down there with
Charles Arbonne Jr. Actually, I felt great. I
immediately turned around, and I didn't even care
what John Swofford was doing or how involved he was
with the paper writing thing. I just walked into
him and put my hand out. And I said, thank you very
much, John Swofford. He looked at me. I said, I just
got emotional. He said, oh. He says, well,
congratulations. He says, I knew it. And then I
showed it to him. And I turned around and walked
out. And of course, Doris and the kid were still
back in Italy. And I don't remember, naturally I
was happy and elated, and
maybe I was a little bit surprised, but I remember
reading that OER, and the officer's perspective
report where the admiral made that comment, and
again, I
was a little surprised, but To a certain extent, I
must admit, maybe egotistically, but I did kind of
expect it. And I had about another six or eight
months to go, and I was going to be reassigned at the
end of the three-year tour. But later on, General
Swofford or somebody made that comment to me that I
told you a moment ago. It's the first time I think he
said his first time Brigadier General in this
position, in the Air Force position, has ever been
promoted to a Major General on the spot. So that was
quite a compliment to me. At least I took it that
way. And after that, of course, the Italian
General,
I replaced General Bianchi with my boss. when I
came back and arrived at the airport. As a matter of
fact, they met me at the airplane to congratulate
me. And all the other colonels and generals in the
Italian Air Force knew about it by then, you know,
where it got back to then. Of course, my wife knew
it. So, as a matter of fact, I stepped off the
airplane with two stars. No kidding. They let you
wear two stars back? Yeah. Well, it was effective,
I think, practically the day they put out the list.
Effective for me. I forget how it was, but two or
three days, you know, is the time we got back.
First of July of 63.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. First of July of 63, and in August
of 63, you were, you switched, you left Italy, were
you happy to go? Oh, yeah. And you went to Shaw Air
Force Base where you were the Deputy Commander of
the 9th Air Force. And you stayed there for three
years. Right.
Oh, almost three years. I forget the date. Yeah.
Well, from August 1963 to January 1966.
What were your responsibilities there? Well,
Deputy Commander, Under the Commander, At first
it was General Koerner, C-O-Y-N-E-R, and it was
that time that General Sweeney was commander of
TAC, the SAC General, that used to be, I think, his
chief of staff, the vice commander of SAC, and for
some reason or another they decided to assign him,
give him TAC, Tactical Aircraft.
deputy commander of 9th, and my relations, the
command channel of course went to General Sweeney
and General Corner, so normally all the
relationships between those two, but I learned to
know General Sweeney as the vice commander of 9th
Air Force, and that's where we got in a lot of joint
training exercises some very big and expensive
exercises with the United States Army and where we
got involved in a lot of controversial
discussions with the United States Army as to how
we support them and who would have helicopters and
troop lifts and air carriers, this type of stuff.
There was a big problem here on helicopters
between the Army and the Air Force. Can you explain
that? Yes, the Army had their helicopters and we
had our helicopters and the Army was operating
with the idea that they were going to equip and
build and design and deploy helicopters armed
with such nature that they would really take over
air support and give direct air support to their
troops when this was rightfully by roles and
missions of the United States Air Force. So
really, the roles and missions was the
controversial thing at that time between the Air
Force and the United States Army, and I was right in
the middle of this. And in the many exercises we
had, I have to give General Sweeney full credit for
it. He was instrumental. It might very well be
that's the reason he was assigned the job. He was a
very adamant, demanding, martinet-type,
ruthless general. far more, in my opinion, than
General LeMay, and I'm sure that a lot of this
so-called ruthlessness of General LeMay at SAC
really stemmed from this man, I feel, because he
exhibited as a commander of TAC.
In his dealings with the Army? In his dealings with
the Army, he was a dynamic man who wouldn't, you
know, it wouldn't take no for an answer, and this is
my job, and I could very well be that's the reason he
was put in there, because we were having a very hard
time with the Army and maintaining our position
that ground direct air support is an Air Force
mission, and you shouldn't have what's now known
as attack helicopters with missiles on them,
guns, and so forth, and you shouldn't do your local
tactical reconnaissance. We do that and so forth.
So that's one reason we had all these exercises and
that's one reason that the so-called STRYCOM
command was organized, Strike Forces was
organized and set up as a joint
tactical force at met at the MacDill Air Force Base
in Florida, in Tampa, Florida, where an Army
commander was commanding it, and he had a deputy
who was an Air Force commander, and on the
exercises that the Army and the Air Force would
have, see, he would command them. Therefore, he
would be the umpire and the referee, let's say,
about the developing joint tactics for support of
the ground forces and the Air Force and the Army
operating together. And to make a long story
short, we had a lot of exercise and a lot of TDY. And
it so turned out that your old Charlie Bond was
always tabbed by one General Sweeney as the Air
Force component commander of those exercises.
And this is where...
I don't know. I have a feeling that I said, I don't
possibly know. He never did tell me except that I
got the impression from him he just thought that I
was good at it. Nobody else could do it any better
than I could. Plus the fact that he knew I knew
tactical air warfare. A lot of ways I had almost
written a book, if you will, in a lot of ways. And he
knew I was dependable. I think he knew I didn't
particularly care because the first, just go back
a little, the first job I ever was given when I was
assigned to that job as vice commander in 9th Air
Force was they had a terrible accident down at
Eglin Air Force Base by one of the outfits where we
were making rocket attacks on some targets
directed by a forward air controller, exercises,
you know, developing tactics. And the airplane
came around and fired its rockets into the
controller's
position and killed one of the pilots there who
was, you know, supposed to be the controller and
marked the target. And they were investigating
the accident. I hadn't been to Kamehameha in two
weeks. I got a call from Chief of Staff at TAC that
General Sweeney wants you to head up this accident
investigation board. And I headed it up, and I
wrote it exactly the way I saw it, and it was
critical of training procedures conducted by the
Tactical Air Command, which of course was
interpreted as critical for General Sweeney, and
he didn't like it. And I think... What did he say to
you about it? He had read it one day when I was
visiting, Well, actually, I was supposed to visit
him, you know, and talk to him at his office about
the report. When they called me into the office, we
sat down and he looked at it the minute he'd read it
all. He dropped it on the table and said, Charlie,
I've got some business coming in. He says, I'm not
going to be able to talk to you about this. In other
words, he was dismissing me. He didn't want to talk
to me. But it was a little bit accusative of the...
the way General Sweeney had put people down there
who, in my opinion, were not properly trained to do
this mission, and that's exactly the reason this
accident occurred. Lack of supervision and
proper training. And at that time, General LeMay
was Chief of Staff of the Air Force. Now, I don't
know whatever happened. General LeMay knew me.
And there was my accident. There was a report
signed by Charles R. Bond. I never heard anything
from anybody. And it went right to LeMay? Oh, sure,
it had to go, sure, you know, Chief of Staff. And he
read it? Well, if he didn't read it, I'm sure he was
briefed on it, and I'm convinced to this day that he
knew that Charlie Bond was investigating him. He
had to know that, because the Chief of Safety and
the Chief of Staff had to brief him. Sure. It was a
nasty accident. But anyway, I don't know,
maybe...
He kept me on TV all the time. It darn near caused a
divorce in my family. Because you were always
gone? I was always gone. I remember specifically
at the end of one joint training exercise we had at
Eglin Air Force called Indian River. He got
through with everything. The exercise was
supposed to be over, and I said, well, I'll be going
back tomorrow. And he said, last thing you stated.
But Charlie said, I want you to stay down. That's
all he said. I don't even remember making a
comment, but to me it was, I took it as, I just took it
hard. When did you ever get to see your wife? Oh
yeah, as a matter of fact, my wife, I was gone so much
that I made arrangements to have her come down and
visit me with the kids. One time I flew up, got
permission to fly a driver down. But that's, I did
a, I did a I did a commendable job. I must have
because I was continually put back in charge of all
the Air Force forces in these joint exercises and I
was well respected by my counterparts in the Army
and we got along well. It was terrific experience.
But here again, you know, the idea to keep a vice
commander occupied, I guess, so I accepted it. But
it was hard, but I did it. Concerning the
helicopters, especially the Army use of
helicopters in Vietnam, who won that battle?
Well, today, you know, the Army has attack
helicopters armed, but the roles and missions
haven't changed. The United States Air Force, in
the form of attack and alert command, still has a
mission of direct air support of the United States
Army. It's sort of compromised. It's getting to be
where in modern technology, you know, that...
It's difficult to draw a line between what is
tactical and strategic and what is,
let's say, an Army weapon by nature and role of
mission and what's an Air Force weapon by nature
and role of mission. Photography,
reconnaissance, night and day, it's getting
complex. But again, I think the way the roles and
missions are written, I think they're still
solid. Were you upset to see the Army have such an
increase of helicopter power during the Vietnam
era?
No. As a matter of fact, over in Vietnam, to a great
extent, I think the Army was justified in getting
the helicopter power. forces that they had. It was
extremely difficult in that going. That's a
different type of warfare. And I think the Army was
justified in that particular war to have the
helicopter forces they had. The Air Force could
have done it, but there again would have been such a
disproportionate, if you will, spread of the
budget. into the Air Force versus the dollars for
the Army that politically just wouldn't have been
done. There was a lot of squabbling in the South
Vietnamese War about these roles and missions,
but we'll get to that later on. But the roles and
missions, by the way, and the tactical procedures
and everything that applied in South Vietnam came
from the very exercises that I participated in and
directed while I was 9th, Deputy Commander of the
9th Air Force. In other words, they took that type
of cooperation and techniques and tactics and
they transferred that from South Carolina to
Vietnam. Right. But because of the geographical
and topographical layout of the battle areas,
Even then it had to be modified, sure. And there
again, see, we get to another question, but there
again is we applied air power wrong.
We're going to talk about Vietnam.
Yeah, right. Is there anything else that we should
talk about as far as Shaw Air Force Base? No, it was
typical. Towards the end, I was given the
assignment there. General Sweeney gave me
additional job as commander of Tactical Air
Reconnaissance Center, which was another R&D
type agency, if you will, based at Shaw for
developing tactical reconnaissance equipment
and techniques and tactics for reconnaissance
missions. And that was an interesting job. And
that's one place where I became familiar with
Texas Instruments and the development of
so-called FLIR, Forward Looking Infrared
Equipment, which was nothing in the world but
night television, which turned out to be a
fantastic piece of equipment. How does that work?
It's an infrared type of photography which gives
you a picture based on the differences in the
temperature of the items that you're looking at in
black and white and they have even converted this
now by computer technology where they can make it
as a color picture very advanced but then those
days it was just strictly black and white and at
night you can imagine how sensational it was to be
in an airplane at night with a television view
right there on your panel of the aircraft,
forward-looking of the ground that you're flying
over and picking out cows on the field, vehicles on
the truck, trucks on the road, anti-aircraft
displacement units, and so forth. Fantastic.
Well, how could you pick up something like metal?
Well, it'd be different temperature from the
surrounding area. You could see where an airplane
come over and take a picture of the ramp on an air
base, say 15 minutes after the airplane taxied
away, you could see the outline of the aircraft on
the concrete because the temperature was
different. You see, the sun couldn't heat the, in
other words, the shadow of the airplane. Sure,
sure. That's fascinating. How effective was that
on Vietnam? Oh, that was the basis of the gunship
tactics and techniques of the big C-130s with guns
shooting out the side. Truck destruction, and I
was proud to see that, boy, I was right in the middle
of all that. That and the laser guys bomb. Tell me
about the laser guys bomb. Well, that came about
just about the time of my, when I was, had my job as
the commander additional had to come out of the
Texan Air Reconnaissance Center. The T.I. people
come in, Texas Instruments, uh, engineers coming
through and briefing me on, it wasn't part of my
job, I had to have industry come in and brief me on
certain types of equipment we were developing,
monitoring. And, uh, that's when I met some of my
friends at Texas Instruments that told me also
about the laser-guided bomb, which, uh, to me was
ten times more interesting and, uh, got my
attention even more so than FLIR. I thought it was a
new technique of bombing I'd never heard of. The
accuracy was just unbelievable. I couldn't
believe it when they told me that. And then I got
interested in it. Do you remember when this
meeting was? It was a few months before I went to
Southeast Asia in 66, I believe. Okay. So I managed
to get the T.I. to come up and brief me. So it would be
late 65 because you went in 66. That's right, late
65. Okay. As a matter of fact, I went over about
Christmas. January of 66 you went. At Christmas
with a wife and then took off to her great different
country and mine. But tell me about that beam now.
Laser guided? Yeah. Tell me about that bombing.
Well, we're getting into the Southeast Asian
assignment time anyhow, aren't we? Well, this is
about time we left. I was to be assigned, and again,
I'll get to that and tell you why I went to Southeast
Asia. Again, I was picked specifically for a very
peculiar assignment in Thailand. I would be
deputy commander of the 7th Slant 13th Air Forces.